## 06-07

**1.2.1 Access Networks** 

​	Having considered the applications and end systems at the “edge of the network,” let’s next consider the access network—the network that physically connects an end system to the first router (also known as the “edge router”) on a path from the end system to any other distant end system. Figure 1.4 shows several types of access networks with thick, shaded lines and the settings (home, enterprise, and wide-area mobile wireless) in which they are used.

​	In **developed countries(发达国家)** as of 2014, more than 78 percent of the households have Internet access, with Korea, Netherlands, Finland, and Sweden leading the way with more than 80 percent of households having Internet access, almost all via a high-speed broadband connection [ITU 2015]. Given this widespread use of home access networks let’s begin our overview of access networks by considering how homes connect to the Internet.

​	Today, the two most **prevalent（流行的）** types of broadband residential access are digital subscriber line (DSL) and cable. A residence typically obtains DSL Internet access from the same local telephone company (telco) that provides its wired local phone access. Thus, when DSL is used, a customer’s telco is also its ISP. As shown in Figure 1.5, each customer’s DSL modem uses the existing telephone line (twistedpair copper wire, which we’ll discuss in Section 1.2.2) to exchange data with a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) located in the telco’s local central office (CO). The home’s DSL modem takes digital data and translates it to high-frequency tones for transmission over telephone wires to the CO; the analog signals from many such houses are translated back into digital format at the DSLAM.

​	The residential telephone line carries both data and traditional telephone signals **simultaneously（同时地）**, which are encoded at different frequencies:

- A high-speed downstream channel, in the 50 kHz to 1 MHz band 

- A medium-speed upstream channel, in the 4 kHz to 50 kHz band 

- An ordinary two-way telephone channel, in the 0 to 4 kHz band

​	This approach makes the single DSL link appear as if there were three separate links, so that a telephone call and an Internet connection can share the DSL link at the same time.(We’ll describe this technique of frequency-division multiplexing in Section 1.3.1.) 

​	On the customer side, a splitter separates the data and telephone signals arriving to the home and forwards the data signal to the DSL modem. On the telco side, in the CO, the DSLAM separates the data and phone signals and sends the data into the Internet. Hundreds or even thousands of households connect to a single DSLAM

​	The DSL standards define multiple transmission rates, including 12 Mbps downstream and 1.8 Mbps upstream [ITU 1999], and 55 Mbps downstream and 15 Mbps upstream [ITU 2006]. Because the downstream and upstream rates are different, the access is said to be **asymmetric（非对称）**. The actual downstream and upstream transmission rates achieved may be less than the rates noted above, as the DSL provider may **purposefully（目的性的）** limit a residential rate when **tiered（阶梯式）** service (different rates, available at different prices) are offered. The maximum rate is also limited by the distance between the home and the CO, the **gauge（测量仪器、估计）** of the twisted-pair line and the degree of **electrical interference（电气干扰）**. Engineers have **expressly（清楚地）** designed DSL for short distances between the home and the CO; generally, if the residence is not located within 5 to 10 miles of the CO, the residence must resort to an alternative form of Internet access.

​	While DSL makes use of the telco’s existing local telephone infrastructure, cable Internet access makes use of the cable television company’s existing cable television infrastructure. A residence obtains cable Internet access from the same company that provides its cable television. As illustrated in Figure 1.6, fiber optics connect the cable head end to neighborhood-level junctions, from which traditional coaxial cable is then used to reach individual houses and apartments. Each neighborhood junction typically supports 500 to 5,000 homes. Because both fiber and coaxial cable are employed in this system, it is often referred to as hybrid fiber coax (HFC).

​	Cable internet access requires special modems, called cable modems. As with a DSL modem, the cable modem is typically an external device and connects to the home PC through an Ethernet port. (We will discuss Ethernet in great detail in Chapter 6.) At the cable head end, the cable modem termination system (CMTS) serves a similar function as the DSL network’s DSLAM—turning the analog signal sent from the cable modems in many downstream homes back into digital format. Cable modems divide the HFC network into two channels, a downstream and an upstream channel. As with DSL, access is typically asymmetric, with the downstream channel typically allocated a higher transmission rate than the upstream channel. The DOCSIS 2.0 standard defines downstream rates up to 42.8 Mbps and upstream rates of up to 30.7 Mbps. As in the case of DSL networks, the maximum achievable rate may not be realized due to lower contracted data rates or media impairments.

​	One important characteristic of cable Internet access is that it is a **shared broadcast medium**. In particular, every packet sent by the head end travels downstream on every link to every home and every packet sent by a home travels on the upstream channel to the head end. For this reason, if several users are simultaneously downloading a video file on the downstream channel, the actual rate at which each user receives its video file will be significantly lower than the aggregate cable downstream rate. On the other hand, if there are only a few active users and they are all Web surfing, then each of the users may actually receive Web pages at the full cable downstream rate, because the users will rarely request a Web page at exactly the same time. Because the upstream channel is also shared, a **distributed multiple access protocol** is needed to **coordinate（协调）** transmissions and avoid collisions. (We’ll discuss this collision issue in some detail in Chapter 6.)

​	Although DSL and cable networks currently represent more than 85 percent of residential broadband access in the United States, an **up-and-coming（有前途）** technology that provides even higher speeds is fiber to the home (FTTH) [FTTH Council 2016]. As the name suggests, the FTTH concept is simple—provide an optical fiber path from the CO directly to the home. Many countries today—including the UAE, South Korea, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, Lithuania, and Sweden—now have household penetration rates exceeding 30% [FTTH Council 2016]. 

​	There are several competing technologies for optical distribution from the CO to the homes. The simplest optical distribution network is called direct fiber, with one fiber leaving the CO for each home. More commonly, each fiber leaving the central office is actually shared by many homes; it is not until the fiber gets relatively close to the homes that it is split into individual customer-specific fibers. There are two competing optical-distribution network architectures that perform this splitting: active optical networks (AONs) and passive optical networks (PONs). AON is essentially switched Ethernet, which is discussed in Chapter 6.