## 06-27:	

​	“Men,” said the little prince, “**set out(出发)** on their way in express trains, but they do not know what they are looking for. Then they rush about, and get excited, and turn round and round. . . ” And he added: “It is not worth the trouble. . . ” The well that we had come to was not like the wells of the Sahara. The wells of the Sahara are mere holes dug in the sand. This one was like a well in a village. But there was no village here, and I thought I must be dreaming. . . “It is strange,” I said to the little prince. “Everything is ready for use: the **pulley(滑轮)**, the bucket, the rope. . . ” He laughed, touched the rope, and set the pulley to working. And the pulley moaned, like an old **weathervane（风向标）** which the wind has long since forgotten.

​	“Do you hear?” said the little prince. “We have wakened the well, and it is singing. . . ” I did not want him to tire himself with the rope. “Leave it to me,” I said. “It is too heavy for you.” I **hoisted（提起）** the bucket slowly to the edge of the well and set it there– happy, tired as I was, over my achievement. The song of the pulley was still in my ears, and I could see the sunlight **shimmer（闪烁）** in the still trembling water. “I am thirsty for this water,” said the little prince. “Give me some of it to drink. . . ” And I understood what he had been looking for.

​	I raised the bucket to his lips. He drank, his eyes closed. It was as sweet as some special festival treat. This water was indeed a different thing from ordinary **nourishment（营养）**. Its sweetness was born of the walk under the stars, the song of the pulley, the effort of my arms. It was good for the heart, like a present. When I was a little boy, the lights of the Christmas tree, the music of the Midnight Mass, the **tenderness（亲切）** of smiling faces, used to make up, so, the radiance of the gifts I received. “The men where you live,” said the little prince, “raise five thousand roses in the same garden– and they do not find in it what they are looking for.” “They do not find it,” I replied. “And yet what they are looking for could be found in one single rose, or in a little water.” “Yes, that is true,” I said. And the little prince added: “But the eyes are blind. One must look with the heart. . . ” I had drunk the water. I breathed easily. At sunrise the sand is the color of honey. And that honey color was making me happy, too. What brought me, then, this sense of grief? “You must keep your promise,” said the little prince, softly, as he sat down beside me once more. “What promise?” “You know– a muzzle for my sheep. . . I am responsible for this flower. . . ”

​	I took my rough drafts of drawings out of my pocket. The little prince looked them over, and laughed as he said: “Your baobabs– they look a little like cabbages.” “Oh!” I had been so proud of my baobabs! “Your fox– his ears look a little like horns; and they are too long.” And he laughed again. “You are not fair, little prince,” I said. “I don’t know how to draw anything except boa constrictors from the outside and boa constrictors from the inside.” “Oh, that will be all right,” he said, “children understand.” So then I made a pencil sketch of a muzzle. And as I gave it to him my heart was torn. “You have plans that I do not know about,” I said. But he did not answer me. He said to me, instead: “You know– my **descent（下降、降落）** to the earth. . . Tomorrow will be its anniversary.” Then, after a silence, he went on: “I came down very near here.” And he flushed. And once again, without understanding why, I had a queer sense of sorrow. One question, however, occurred to me: “Then it was not by chance that on the morning when I first met you– a week ago– you were **strolling（闲逛）** along like that, all alone, a thousand miles from any inhabited region? You were on the your back to the place where you landed?” The little prince flushed again.

​	And I added, with some hesitancy: “Perhaps it was because of the anniversary?” The little prince flushed once more. He never answered questions– but when one flushes does that not mean “Yes”? “Ah,” I said to him, “I am a little frightened–” But he interrupted me. “Now you must work. You must return to your engine. I will be waiting for you here. Come back tomorrow evening. . . ” But I was not **reassured（使安心）**. I remembered the fox. One runs the risk of weeping a little, if one lets himself be tamed. . .





## 06-28:

​	Beside the well there was the ruin of an old stone wall. When I came back from my work, the next evening, I saw from some distance away my little price sitting on top of a wall, with his feet **dangling(悬挂、摇摆)**. And I heard him say: “Then you don’t remember. This is not the exact spot.” Another voice must have answered him, for he replied to it: “Yes, yes! It is the right day, but this is not the place.” I continued my walk toward the wall. At no time did I see or hear anyone. The little prince, however, replied once again: “–Exactly. You will see where my track begins, in the sand. You have nothing to do but wait for me there. I shall be there tonight.” I was only twenty metres from the wall, and I still saw nothing. After a silence the little prince spoke again: “You have good poison? You are sure that it will not make me suffer too long?” I stopped in my tracks, my heart torn asunder; but still I did not understand. “Now go away,” said the little prince. “I want to get down from the wall.”

​	I dropped my eyes, then, to the foot of the wall– and I leaped into the air. There before me, facing the little prince, was one of those yellow snakes that take just thirty seconds to bring your life to an end. Even as I was digging into my pocked to get out my **revolver（左轮手枪）** I made a running step back. But, at the noise I made, the snake let himself flow easily across the sand like the dying **spray（浪花）** of a **fountain（喷泉）**, and, in no apparent hurry, disappeared, with a light **metallic（金属）** sound, among the stones.

​	I reached the wall just in time to catch my little man in my arms; his face was white as snow. “What does this mean?” I demanded. “Why are you talking with snakes?” I had loosened the golden **muffler（围巾）** that he always **wore（穿戴）**. I had **moistened（弄湿）** his temples, and had given him some water to drink. And now I did not dare ask him any more questions. He looked at me very gravely, and put his arms around my neck. I felt his heart beating like the heart of a dying bird, shot with someone’s rifle. . . “I am glad that you have found what was the matter with your engine,” he said. “Now you can go back home–” “How do you know about that?” I was just coming to tell him that my work had been successful, beyond anything that I had dared to hope. He made no answer to my question, but he added: “I, too, am going back home today. . . ” Then, sadly– “It is much farther. . . it is much more difficult. . . ” I realised clearly that something extraordinary was happening. I was holding him close in my arms as if he were a little child; and yet it seemed to me that he was rushing headlong toward an **abyss（深渊）** from which I could do nothing to restrain him. . . His look was very serious, like some one lost far away. “I have your sheep. And I have the sheep’s box. And I have the muzzle. . . ” And he gave me a sad smile. I waited a long time. I could see that he was reviving little by little. “Dear little man,” I said to him, “you are afraid. . . ” He was afraid, there was no doubt about that. But he laughed lightly. “I shall be much more afraid this evening. . . ” Once again I felt myself frozen by the sense of something **irreparable（不可抵抗的）**. And I knew that I could not bear the thought of never hearing that laughter any more. For me, it was like a spring of fresh water in the desert. “Little man,” I said, “I want to hear you laugh again.”

​	But he said to me: “Tonight, it will be a year. . . my star, then, can be found right above the place where I came to the Earth, a year ago. . . ” “Little man,” I said, “tell me that it is only a bad dream– this affair of the snake, and the meeting-place, and the star. . . ” But he did not answer my plea. He said to me, instead: “The thing that is important is the thing that is not seen. . . ” “Yes, I know. . . ” “It is just as it is with the flower. If you love a flower that lives on a star, it is sweet to look at the sky at night. All the stars are a-bloom with flowers. . . ” “Yes, I know. . . ”

​	“It is just as it is with the water. Because of the pulley, and the rope, what you gave me to drink was like music. You remember– how good it was.” “Yes, I know. . . ” “And at night you will look up at the stars. Where I live everything is so small that I cannot show you where my star is to be found. It is better, like that. My star will just be one of the stars, for you. And so you will love to watch all the stars in the heavens. . . they will all be your friends. And, besides, I am going to make you a present. . . ” He laughed again. “Ah, little prince, dear little prince! I love to hear that laughter!” “That is my present. Just that. It will be as it was when we drank the water. . . ” “What are you trying to say?” **“All men have the stars,” he answered, “but they are not the same things for different people. For some, who are travelers, the stars are guides. For others they are no more than little lights in the sky. For others, who are scholars, they are problems. For my businessman they were wealth. But all these stars are silent. You– you alone– will have the stars as no one else has them–” “**What are you trying to say?” “In one of the stars I shall be living. In one of them I shall be laughing. And so it will be as if all the stars were laughing, when you look at the sky at night. . . you– only you– will have stars that can laugh!” And he laughed again. **“And when your sorrow is comforted (time soothes all sorrows) you will be content that you have known me**. You will always be my friend. You will want to laugh with me. And you will sometimes open your window, so, for that pleasure. . . and your friends will be properly astonished to see you laughing as you look up at the sky! Then you will say to them, ‘Yes, the stars always make me laugh!’ And they will think you are crazy. It will be a very shabby trick that I shall have played on you. . . ”

​	And he laughed again. “It will be as if, in place of the stars, I had given you a great number of little **bells（铃铛）** that knew how to laugh. . . ” And he laughed again. Then he quickly became serious: “Tonight– you know. . . do not come,” said the little prince. “I shall not leave you,” I said. “I shall look as if I were suffering. I shall look a little as if I were dying. It is like that. Do not come to see that. It is not worth the trouble. . . ” “I shall not leave you.” But he was worried. “I tell you– it is also because of the snake. He must not bite you. Snakes– they are **malicious（恶意的）** creatures. This one might bite you just for fun. . . ” “I shall not leave you.” But a thought came to reassure him: “It is true that they have no more poison for a second bite.”

​	That night I did not see him set out on his way. He got away from me without making a sound. When I succeeded in catching up with him he was walking along with a quick and **resolute（坚定的）** step. He said to me merely: “Ah! You are there. . . ” And he took me by the hand. But he was still worrying. “It was wrong of you to come. You will suffer. I shall look as if I were dead; and that will not be true. . . ” I said nothing. “You understand. . . it is too far. I cannot carry this body with me. It is too heavy.” I said nothing. “But it will be like an old abandoned shell. There is nothing sad about old shells. . . ” I said nothing. He was a little discouraged. But he made one more effort: “You know, it will be very nice. I, too, shall look at the stars. All the stars will be wells with a rusty pulley. All the stars will pour out fresh water for me to drink. . . ” I said nothing. “That will be so amusing! You will have five hundred million little bells, and I shall have five hundred million springs of fresh water. . . ” And he too said nothing more, becuase he was crying. . . “Here it is. Let me go on by myself.” And he sat down, because he was afraid. Then he said, again: “You know– my flower. . . I am responsible for her. And she is so weak! She is so na¨ıve! She has four thorns, of no use at all, to protect herself against all the world. . . ” I too sat down, because I was not able to stand up any longer. “There now– that is all. . . ” He still hesitated a little; then he got up. He took one step. I could not move. There was nothing but a flash of yellow close to his ankle. He remained **motionless（静止）** for an instant. He did not cry out. He fell as gently as a tree falls. There was not even any sound, because of the sand.

​	And now six years have already gone by. . . I have never yet told this story. The companions who met me on my return were well content to see me alive. I was sad, but I told them: “I am tired.” Now my sorrow is comforted a little. That is to say– not entirely. But I know that he did go back to his planet, because I did not find his body at daybreak. It was not such a heavy body. . . and at night I love to listen to the stars. It is like five hundred million little bells. . . But there is one extraordinary thing. . . when I drew the muzzle for the little prince, I forgot to add the **leather strap（皮带）** to it. He will never have been able to fasten it on his sheep. So now I keep wondering: what is happening on his planet? Perhaps the sheep has eaten the flower. . . At one time I say to myself: “Surely not! The little prince shuts his flower under her glass globe every night, and he watches over his sheep very carefully. . . ” Then I am happy. And there is sweetness in the laughter of all the stars. But at another time I say to myself: “At some moment or other one is **absent-minded（心不在焉）,** and that is enough! On some one evening he forgot the glass globe, or the sheep got out, without making any noise, in the night. . . ” And then the little bells are changed to tears. . . Here, then, is a great mystery. For you who also love the little prince, and for me, nothing in the universe can be the same if somewhere, we do not know where, a sheep that we never saw has– yes or no?– eaten a rose. . . Look up at the sky. Ask yourselves: is it yes or no? Has the sheep eaten the flower? And you will see how everything changes. . . And no grown-up will ever understand that this is a matter of so much importance! This is, to me, the loveliest and saddest landscape in the world. It is the same as that on the preceding page, but I have drawn it again to impress it on your memory. It is here that the little prince appeared on Earth, and disappeared.

​	Look at it carefully so that you will be sure to recognise it in case you travel some day to the African desert. And, if you should come upon this spot, please do not hurry on. Wait for a time, exactly under the star. Then, if a little man appears who laughs, who has golden hair and who refuses to answer questions, you will know who he is. If this should happen, please comfort me. Send me word that he has come back.







## 06-29:

​	A computer is an electronic device that can receive a set of instructions, or program, and then carry out this program by performing calculations on numerical data or by manipulating other forms of information. The modern world of high technology could not have come about except for the development of the computer. Different types and sizes of computers find uses throughout society in the storage and handling of data, from secret governmental files to banking transactions to private household accounts. Computers have opened up a new era in manufacturing through the techniques of automation, and they have enhanced modern communication systems. They are essential tools in almost every field of research and applied technology, from constructing models of the universe to producing tomorrow’s weather reports, and their use has in itself opened up new areas of **conjecture(猜测)**. Database services and computer networks make available a great variety of information sources. The same advanced techniques also make possible **invasions(入侵)** of personal and business privacy. Computer crime has become one of the many risks that are part of the price of modern technology. 

​	The first adding machine, a precursor of the digital computer, was devised in 1642 by the French scientist, mathematician, and philosopher Blaise Pascal. This device employed a series of ten-toothed wheels, each tooth representing a digit from 0 to 9. The wheels were connected so that numbers could be added to each other by advancing the wheels by a correct number of teeth. In the 1670s the German philosopher and mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz  improved on this machine by devising one that could also multiply. The French inventor Joseph-Marie Jacquard , in designing an automatic **loom(织机)**, used thin, **perforated（穿卡）** wooden boards to control the weaving of complicated designs. During the 1880s the American statistician Herman Hollerith **conceived（构想）** the idea of using perforated cards, similar to Jacquard’s boards, for processing data. Employing a system that passed punched cards over electrical contacts, he was able to compile statistical information for the 1890 United States census. 





## 06-30:

A. The Analytical Engine

​	Also in the 19th century, the British mathematician and inventor Charles Babbage worked out the principles of the modern digital computer. He conceived a number of machines, such as the **Difference Engine（差分机）**, that were designed to handle complicated mathematical problems. Many historians consider Babbage and his **associate（助手）**, the mathematician Augusta Ada Byron , the true pioneers of the modern digital computer. One of Babbage’s designs, the Analytical Engine, had many features of a modern computer. It had an input stream in the form of a deck of punched cards, a “store” for saving data, a “**mill（磨坊、工厂）**” for arithmetic operations, and a printer that made a permanent record.Babbage failed to put this idea into practice, though it may well have been technically possible at that date. 

B. Early Computers 

​	Analogue computers began to be built in the late 19th century. Early models calculated by means of rotating **shafts（轴）** and **gears（齿轮、变速箱）**. Numerical approximations of equations too difficult to solve in any other way were evaluated with such machines. Lord Kelvin built a mechanical tide predictor that was a specialized analogue computer. During World Wars I and II, mechanical and, later, electrical analogue computing systems were used as **torpedo（鱼雷）** course predictors in submarines and as bombsight controllers in aircraft. Another system was designed to predict spring floods in the Mississippi River basin. 

C. Electronic Computers

​	During World War II, a team of scientists and mathematicians, working at Bletchley Park, north of London, created one of the first all-electronic digital computers: Colossus. By December 1943, Colossus, which **incorporated（包含、组成）** 1,500 vacuum tubes, was operational. It was used by the team headed by Alan Turing , in the largely successful attempt to crack German radio messages **enciphered（被编码的）** in the **Enigma（谜团）** code . Independently of this, in the United States, a **prototype（原型）** electronic machine had been built as early as 1939, by John Atanasoff and Clifford Berry at Iowa State College. This prototype and later research were completed quietly and later **overshadowed（被掩盖）** by the development of the Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer (ENIAC 4 ) in 1945. ENIAC was granted a patent, which was overturned decades later, in 1973, when the machine was revealed to have incorporated principles first used in the Atanasoff-Berry Computer. 

​	ENIAC (See Figure 1A-1) contained 18,000 vacuum tubes and had a speed of several hundred multiplications per minute, but originally its program was wired into the processor and had to be manually altered. Later machines were built with program storage, based on the ideas of the Hungarian-American mathematician John von Neumann . The instructions, like the data, were stored within a “memory”, freeing the computer from the speed limitations of the paper-tape reader during execution and permitting problems to be solved without rewiring the computer. The use of the transistor in computers in the late 1950s marked the advent of smaller, faster, and more **versatile（多用途）** logical elements than were possible with vacuum-tube machines. Because transistors use much less power and have a much longer life, this development alone was responsible for the improved machines called second-generation computers. Components became smaller, as did inter-component spacings, and the system became much less expensive to build



## 07-01:

**D. Integrated Circuits** 

​	Late in the 1960s the integrated circuit, or IC, was introduced, making it possible for many transistors to be **fabricated(制造)** on one silicon substrate, with interconnecting wires plated in place. The IC resulted in a further reduction in price, size, and failure rate. The microprocessor became a reality in the mid-1970s with the introduction of the large-scale integrated (LSI) circuit and, later, the very large-scale integrated (VLSI) circuit (microchip), with many thousands of interconnected transistors **etched（蚀刻）** into a single silicon substrate. To return, then, to the switching capabilities of a modern computer: computers in the 1970s were generally able to handle eight switches at a time. That is, they could deal with eight binary digits, or bits, of data, at every cycle. A group of eight bits is called a byte, each byte containing 256 possible patterns of ONs and OFFs (or 1s and 0s). Each pattern is the equivalent of an instruction, a part of an instruction, or a particular type of datum, such as a number or a character or a graphics symbol. The pattern 11010010, for example, might be binary data—in this case, the decimal number 210—or it might be an instruction telling the computer to compare data stored in its switches to data stored in a certain memory-chip location. The development of processors that can handle 16, 32, and 64 bits of data at a time has increased the speed of computers. The complete collection of recognizable patterns—the total list of operations—of which a computer is capable is called its instruction set. Both factors—the number of bits that can be handled at one time, and the size of instruction sets—continue to increase with the ongoing development of modern digital computers. 

**III. HARDWARE** 

​	Modern digital computers are all conceptually similar, regardless of size. Nevertheless, they can be divided into several categories on the basis of cost and performance: the personal computer or microcomputer, a relatively low-cost machine, usually of desktop size (though “laptops” are small enough to fit in a briefcase, and “palmtops” can fit into a pocket); the workstation, a microcomputer with enhanced graphics and communications capabilities that make it especially useful for office work; the minicomputer, generally too expensive for personal use, with capabilities suited to a business, school, or **laboratory（实验室）**; and the mainframe computer, a large, expensive machine with the capability of serving the needs of major business enterprises, government departments, scientific research establishments, or the like (the largest and fastest of these are called supercomputers). A digital computer is not a single machine: rather, it is a system composed of five distinct elements:  a central processing unit;  input devices; memory storage devices; output devices; and  a communications network, called a bus, which links all the elements of the system and connects the system to the external world. 

**IV. PROGRAMMING**

​	A program is a sequence of instructions that tells the hardware of a computer what operations to perform on data. Programs can be built into the hardware itself, or they may exist independently in a form known as software. In some specialized, or “dedicated”, computers the operating instructions are embedded in their circuitry; common examples are the microcomputers found in calculators, wristwatches, car engines, and microwave ovens. A general-purpose computer, on the other hand, although it contains some built-in programs (in ROM) or instructions (in the processor chip), depends on external programs to perform useful tasks. Once a computer has been programmed, it can do only as much or as little as the software controlling it at any given moment enables it to do. Software in widespread use includes a wide range of applications programs—instructions to the computer on how to perform various tasks. 

**V. FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS** 

​	One continuing trend in computer development is microminiaturization, the effort to compress more circuit elements into smaller and smaller chip space. Researchers are also trying to speed up circuitry functions through the use of **superconductivity（超导）**, the phenomenon of decreased electrical resistance observed in certain materials at very low temperatures. The “fifth-generation” computer effort to develop computers that can solve complex problems in ways that might eventually merit the description “creative” is another trend in computer development, the ideal goal being true artificial intelligence. One path actively being explored is parallel-processing computing, which uses many chips to perform several different tasks at the same time. One important parallel-processing approach is the neural network, which **mimics（模仿）** the architecture of the nervous system. Another ongoing trend is the increase in computer networking, which now employs the worldwide data communications system of satellite and cable links to connect computers globally. There is also a great deal of research into the possibility of “**optical（光学）**” computers—hardware that processes not pulses of electricity but much faster pulses of light. 





## 07-02:

​	Imagine watching a movie projected through your eyeglasses onto a virtual screen that seems to float in your field of vision. Or imagine working on an automobile, an airplane, or an underwater mission and reading an instruction manual, communicating with co-workers, or inputting data via computer—all without lifting a finger from the task at hand. The realities are closer than most may **suspect(猜想)** as cutting-edge wearable computers for industrial and consumer use are already being designed. For techies fluent in user interface, hardware, and software design, it means lots of job opportunity. Here’s a quick list of a few innovative wearables coming to market. 

**The Ultimate in Eyewear**

​	While wearable computer devices aren’t generally available to consumers today, more and more industries are beginning to take advantage of the wearable computer—and more **vendors（供应商）** are entering the market, designing smaller, comfortable, integrated devices. MicroOptical Corp. , based in Westwood , Mass., has designed two basic models of an eyeglass display—one that clips onto the side of the user’s glasses, and one integrated directly into the eyewear. Though the user still needs a CPU—a laptop, a wearable computer, or even a DVD player or cell phone—the monitor or screen is actually projected through the user’s eyeglasses. Greg Jenkins, sales manager at MicroOptical, says the LCD4 is positioned near the user’s **temple（太阳穴）**. A projected image passes through the **lenses（镜头）** of regular eyeglasses, bounces off a mirror, and displays the illusion of a full-size monitor floating in front of the user’s face. The display weighs less than an ounce, so it’s much more comfortable than some of the earlier head-mounted displays. Jenkins says he can’t **disclose（透露）** which companies are currently using the product, as it is still in beta testing. But the display can incorporate night vision capabilities for the **military（军事）**, and is used in electronics **sectors（部门、行业）** to aid in working on circuit boards, for example. And in medicine, the eyeglass display is aiding the work of **endoscopic surgeons（内窥镜外壳医生）**, enabling them to **probe（调查）** the **veins（静脉）** of patients without having to look up at a screen to view their work. Jenkins says his company is also paying close attention to the cell phone and WAP5 industry. Eventually the technology will put video in your cell phone LCD, but right now the displays on cell phones—especially the newer, smaller designs—aren’t large enough to handle the images. That’s where integrated eyeglass displays can play a part, says Jenkins. MicroOptical hopes to sell its display as an accessory for other products, such as cell phones, DVD players, and wearable CPUs. 

**The WetPC**

 	It’s not for the average diver or **snorkeler（潜水者）**—unless you’ve got about 20 **grand（一千）** to spend. An underwater wearable computer called the WetPC includes a miniature personal computer and a five-button GUI that mounts in a waterproof housing on the diver’s air tank. A cable connects it all to a waterproof virtual display attached to the diver’s mask. The five-key Kord pad can be used in either hand by pressing single or multiple keys. Currently, the SeaPC —a version of the WetPC—is being sold to the Royal Australian Navy and some research organizations, says Dr. Peter Moran, director of WetPC, in Australia. “Apart from having all the normal specs of a desktop machine, they incorporate differential GPS , depth and temperature sensors, a digital **compass（指南针）**, and digital video,” says Moran. “One of the units we are building at the present time will be used for mapping and monitoring **coral（珊瑚）** **reefs（礁石）**.” The WetPC can help **salvage（打捞、抢救）**-divers, **maritime（海事）** **archeologists（考古学家）**, and police divers find objects, record or look up information, or simply monitor their location at all times. Scientists could use the unit for mapping and monitoring coral reefs. Navy divers could use the WetPC to search for mines and other unexploded devices. The WetPC has applications in education, recreation, and tourism as well. Divers can use the WetPC to navigate reefs and create a digital guided tour for underwater tourists. 



**Golden Eye**

 It won’t make you James Bond , but if you work in a manufacturing **plant(植物、工厂)** or oil **refinery（提炼厂）**, it could make your job a lot easier. Honeywell contracted Logic, a product development firm in Minneapolis , to develop Golden Eye, a wearable, thin-client computer linked to a server via radio frequency LAN2 . Designed to boost the efficiency of plant operations—particularly oil refineries—Golden Eye allows operators to access information and process data via the company’s **intranet（内部网）**. Golden Eye has two **compact（小型）**, lightweight components—a hand-held I/O device and an **RF transmitter（射频发射器）** worn on a belt. Its smooth lines, simple design, and bright yellow color make it look almost like a toy. “We make a lot of wearable devices at Logic, and this is probably one of the coolest ones we picked out,” says Troy Kopischke, vice president of engineering. “I think the user interface is quite unique. You look into a very small device and it **optically（光学的）** **blows up（爆发）** the image to be like a 21-inch monitor about a foot away. And there’s an integrated mouse that allows you to point and click.” 



**The Challenges of Wearable Computing**

​	The creation of wearable computers is not without challenge—primarily, how to produce an affordable product. Most units aren’t priced for the average consumer. On the development side, designers and engineers continually strive to increase the functionality and comfort of wearable computers. “One of the big challenges for us is to continue to make them user-friendly—to maintain usability as the functionality goes up and the size goes down,” says Danny Cunagin, president of Logic. He says the next generation of Golden Eye will be a one-piece, integrated unit. And while most wearable computers use standard desktop computer specifications—Pentium 6 processors, Windows operating systems—creating a user interface that is easy, **unobtrusive（不唐突的）**, and comfortable to use and wear remains a little **elusive（难以理解的）**

**Opportunities in the Field** 

​	Moran, of WetPC, says opportunities in the field of underwater computing will increase considerably over the next few years. “Already we are starting to see increased interest for our products without having to advertise them,” he says. “Given the rather unique nature of the underwater environment, professionals will need rather specialized skills. I can see that there will be a need for a variety of hardware and software engineers who have skills in mobile interface design, **ergonomics（人类工程）** design, and integration of underwater technologies, to name a few.” “There’s definitely a need for people who understand the new form,” says Adam Robinson, director of Alliance Programs at Xybernaut, another wearable computer manufacturer based in Fairfax, Va. “You really need innovative designs to take it to the next level.” 





## 07-03:

Tips for Computer Beginners 

1. Shut Windows properly using the Shut Down option from the Start Menu. If you just turn off your computer, you can damage files on your computer and could eventually end up with a computer that doesn’t want to do much, including boot up. 
2. Uninstall your programs with the Add/Remove Programs option in Windows Control Panel. Simply deleting them can leave a big mess behind.
3. Read and learn more about the Windows Registry before you attempt to **tweak（微调）** or **tinker（修补）** with it. The Registry does not take kindly to clumsy editing. 
4. Two general rules for a misbehaving piece of hardware: 1) if it has a power plug, make certain this plug is plugged into a wall socket that you know works; and 2) try deleting the driver for the hardware and see if Windows is able to **redetect（再次检测）** (and operate properly) the hardware in question when it reboots. 
5.  Many hardware problems may be temporary, caused by a lock-up of resources or too few resources available because you have been opening and closing a lot of programs, including many pages of Web2 surfing. You may find that shutting down your computer and rebooting corrects these.
6.  Don’t go below 100MB of free hard disk space. This is often the amount Windows needs for a swap file (where it treats hard disk space as a form of memory to help move pages in and out of your desktop). If you’re running low, try uninstalling programs you do not use, and cleaning up any TMP files you may have on your system (**megabytes（兆）** of space can be lost to these). It may be time to add or replace an older, smaller, and slower hard drive. 
7. Visit the hardware manufacturer’s Web site to find any technical papers or frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to the product you want to install or add, or have a problem operating.
8.  Keep your hardware drivers updated as necessary. 
9. If your system is very slow to start, check the Start Menu to see what programs may be loading at startup. If there are many programs loading, remove some to try to speed up your startup. 
10. Still need help? Visit the Hardware Forum’s newsgroups, where experts and **novices（新手）** trade tips. 



Computer Hardware 

INTRODUCTION 

​	Computer hardware is the equipment involved in the function of a computer and consists of the components that can be physically handled. The function of these components is typically divided into three main categories: input, output, and storage. Components in these categories connect to microprocessors, specifically, the computer’s central processing unit (CPU), the electronic circuitry that provides the computational ability and control of the computer, via wires or circuitry called a bus. Software, on the other hand, is the set of instructions a computer uses to manipulate data, such as a word-processing program or a video game. These programs are usually stored and transferred via the computer’s hardware to and from the CPU. Software also governs how the hardware is utilized; for example, how information is retrieved from a storage device. The interaction between the input and output hardware is controlled by software called the Basic Input Output System (BIOS) software. Although microprocessors are still technically considered to be hardware, portions of their function are also associated with computer software. Since microprocessors have both hardware and software aspects they are therefore often referred to as **firmware（固件）**. 

INPUT HARDWARE 

​	Input hardware consists of external devices—that is, components outside of the computer’s CPU—that provide information and instructions to the computer. A light pen is a stylus with a light sensitive tip that is used to draw directly on a computer’s video screen or to select information on the screen by pressing a clip in the light pen or by pressing the light pen against the surface of the screen. The pen contains light sensors that identify which portion of the screen it is passed over. A mouse is a pointing device designed to be **gripped（抓住）** by one hand. It has a detection device (usually a ball) on the bottom that enables the user to control the motion of an on-screen pointer, or cursor, by moving the mouse on a flat surface. As the device moves across the surface, the cursor moves across the screen. To select items or choose commands on the screen, the user presses a button on the mouse. A joystick is a pointing device composed of a lever that moves in multiple directions to navigate a cursor or other graphical object on a computer screen. A keyboard is a typewriter-like device that allows the user to type in text and commands to the computer. Some keyboards have special function keys or integrated pointing devices, such as a trackball or touch-sensitive regions that let the user’s finger motions move an on-screen cursor. An optical scanner uses light-sensing equipment to convert images such as a picture or text into electronic signals that can be manipulated by a computer. For example, a photograph can be scanned into a computer and then included in a text document created on that computer. The two most common scanner types are the flatbed scanner, which is similar to an office photocopier, and the hand-held scanner, which is passed manually across the image to be processed. A microphone is a device for converting sound into signals that can then be stored, manipulated, and played back by the computer. A voice recognition module is a device that converts spoken words into information that the computer can recognize and process. A modem, which stands for modulator-demodulator, is a device that connects a computer to a telephone line and allows information to be transmitted to or received from another computer. Each computer that sends or receives information must be connected to a modem. The information sent from one computer is converted by the modem into an audio signal, which is then transmitted by telephone lines to the receiving modem, which converts the signal into information that the receiving computer can understand. 
