## **08-08:**

**Through a Hacker’s Eyes** 

​	If you ask **system professionals** why network security measures are necessary, most will answer, “To protect against hackers.” Hackers spend a great deal of time and energy exploring systems and networks, searching for ways of **penetrating(渗透)** system defenses, often utilizing the access they gain to disastrous effect. **News accounts（新闻报道）** of hacker exploits are routine, with many government, corporate, and organizational systems on the list of sites taken **out of commission（不能使用）** for days, even weeks. Although one still sees hackers celebrated as evil geniuses, that **perception（看法）** is changing as the list of victims grows longer and the damage associated with the attacks becomes more **indiscriminate（任意的、无差别的）**. If you are charged with protecting a system, understanding the approach **intruders（入侵者）** take as they carry out an attack can sometimes be helpful. This knowledge is valuable for a number of reasons.

- It enables you to spot certain activity patterns as they happen, recognizing the elements of an attack. 
- It enables you to look at your systems **proactively（抢先、主动地）** before the attacker gets to them, correcting **vulnerabilities（缺陷）** that would be found by any attacker searching your site.
- It gives you the insight necessary to make good decisions about protection strategies. Numerous products are marketed for the purpose of protecting systems. Some are a better fit for your environment than others.
- It enables you to make wiser decisions in managing your systems and your users. Security management is a constant balancing act between accommodating needs for access and honoring needs for protection. A knowledge of the threat from one attempting to attack your system gives you a better sense of the impact of **tightening（变紧）** or loosening security **stances（姿态）**. 



**Identifying a Victim** 

​	The first step in a system hack is to decide which system to attack. Two major attack motivations become apparent at this stage of the attack. The first motivation is entertainment or challenge, and the victim selection is almost random. Here the attacker (or a group of cooperating attackers) might use vulnerability scanners to search part of the IP address space, recording hosts that have security vulnerabilities. The second motivation for selecting a hacking target is **self-aggrandizement（名利方面的自我扩展）** or other **tangible（明确的、真是的）** **incentives（激励、奖励）** (including **intellectual property（知识产权）** theft and discovery of sensitive information). Here the targeting of the victim is much more focused, with the attacker gaining knowledge of the victim system through research and information collection. This is usually followed by a more deliberate search and **seizure（夺取）** of the desired information. The motivation for targeting your site can include the following:

- You may be in business competition with the hacker or an entity that has employed that hacker.
- The hacker may have some personal interest in your site, for example, a relative who is an employee of your firm, or a fascination with a product your organization produces.
- Your site may have an odd or amusing domain name.
- Your site may have received **press coverage（新闻报道）**. 
- Your organization may be involved in a political or **ideological（意识形态）** matter of interest to the hacker.



**Casing the Joint（探路）**

​	Once the target of the hack is identified, the hacker determines the goal of the attack. In cases where a particular site has been identified as the target, this determination is likely to include collecting information about the system. The information can come from the **InterNIC（网络信息中心）** and other public sources and can include items such as the system platforms (both hardware and operating system), personnel involved in the management of the system, telephone numbers, MX3 records, registered servers, and other information. If the attacker hasn’t done it already, he or she may run a vulnerability assessment tool against the site, recording the results.

**Gaining Access**

​	With the victim selected and sufficient information gathered to identify possible approaches to attacking the site, the attention of the attacker is likely to shift to gaining access to a site system. In many cases the vulnerability assessment tool run as part of casing the site has identified a vulnerability that allows the attacker to **log on（登录）**. In cases where no vulnerabilities were found, the hacker has several options. 

​	The attacker could utilize **social engineering** techniques for gaining entry. This approach consists of steps such as making telephone calls to users, pretending to be system maintenance or network management personnel, asking for passwords or information. Another option is to introduce a Trojan horse into the system, accomplished by **duping（欺骗）** an **unwitting（不知情）** authorized user into installing the Trojan horse by including it on a disk or network download containing data or software, or by sending it as an email attachment. 

​	Should these measures fail, the next step depends on the determination and expertise levels of the attacker. If both are high, he or she is likely to undertake a more systematic, **rigorous（严格、严密）**, analysis of the target system. For instance, the hacker might review all the system documentation, searching    for known problems. If the operating system or applications source code is available, she or he might search it for vulnerabilities. If the attacker has a system on which to test possible attacks, he or she might construct several test attacks, checking to see whether any were indeed successful. 

​	Once an avenue into the system is isolated, the final item in the strategy is to determine the **timing（发生某事的时间）** of the attack. Many attackers time attacks for late night or early morning when they believe that no one is likely to be using the system. As globalization of organizations with time zone differences has increased the possibility that someone will be utilizing the system at almost any time, day or night, **off-hour（不执勤）** timing might not be as feasible as before. In any event, some attackers target attacks for peak hours so that their activity will blend into the “noise floor” of other system activity.

**Executing the Attack** 

​	After the strategy is set, it’s time to actually execute the attack. Some attackers, utilizing intrusion scripts and other process optimizations, are able to launch a targeted attack and then cover their tracks in a matter of minutes, even seconds. Others, who wish to take a more leisurely approach, might watch the system activities, waiting until the system has no other users logged on to proceed. On UNIX systems in which the finger daemon is enabled, executing a finger command with the name of the targeted system (“finger@targetedhost.com”) returns a list of current users who are logged on the system. When the attacker determines that the coast is clear, she or he will actually use an intrusion script or “borrowed” user IDs and passwords to log on to the machine. Depending on the privilege level of the account, the attacker might be in the system with user privilege. In this case, the attacker may utilize additional hacker tools to try to gain superuser privilege, which will provide **carte blanche（全权）** access to the entire system.

**A. Installing a Back Door：** The first thing that some hackers do after they have entered the machine as superusers is install back doors, system utilities equipped with custom vulnerabilities that allow the hacker to access the machine at a later time. More expert hackers import precompiled system Trojan horses with back doors, devised so that the file statistics do not differ from the original system binaries. Furthermore, the transfer of these Trojan horses may be done with remote commands that are not logged by the system. Part of this step can include installing “Trojaned” versions of critical system binaries that log information about system processes and network connections. These binaries are altered to hide the presence of the attacker. 

**B. Covering Tracks：** **Obscuring（模糊）** the evidence associated with the attack is a critical part of most attack strategies. Attackers have two separate sets of concerns:

- Covering those tracks that might lead a victim or investigator back to the attacker
- Eliminating evidence internal to the system indicating that the attack occurred 

**C. Publicizing the Result**

​	For some hackers, especially those operating as part of a group, the final step in an attack is publicizing the exploit to others. This step is more likely to occur if

- Your site has high name recognition (such as a popular e-commerce site, a major newspaper, or a government agency).
- The attacker is a **juvenile（青少年）**, or otherwise not subject to criminal **prosecution（起诉）** for the offense. This publicity and resulting **notoriety（臭名昭著）** are often considered part of the motivation for the hack. If the hacker is a professional who was **compensated（补偿）** for taking intellectual property or other sensitive information from your site, you will probably never see this stage of the attack.

**D. Studying Predator（捕食者） and Prey（猎物）：** As you encounter and deal with intrusions in your environment, you may see many variations on the themes presented in this article. My point in presenting this information is that your ability to understand the goals of intrusion detection and the suitability of various monitoring and detection strategies depends on your understanding of the threats you hope to counter. Although the ability to hack a system doesn’t necessarily indicate a similar ability to protect the system, those who can best protect the system do understand how an attacker approaches the system. **Only by studying the approaches taken by your adversary can you shift the balance of power in your favor.** Knowledge is the key to changing your role in this relationship from prey to predator. 







## **08-09:**

**Remarks by Bill Gates: Why the PC Will Not Die** 

​	Computers will take many forms, but there will always be a place for the **all-purpose(通用的)** machine we've come to depend on.

​	Predicting the **imminent（即将发生的）** **demise（倒闭、死亡）** of the personal computer has become an annual **ritual（仪式）** in recent years—and each year the PC has **defied（违抗）** the **prophets（悲观）** of **doom（悲观、劫数）**. This year looks set for a repeat performance. Predictions for **first-quarter（第一季度）** global sales were bad; the PC era was finally ending. In fact, sales grew at a healthy 19 percent annual rate. Worldwide, well over 100 million PCs will be sold this year. That means the world now buys almost as many PCs **as color TVs**. 

​	The PC’s growing popularity isn’t surprising. Prices have fallen sharply while the power of the hardware and software has kept increasing. Consumers and businesses everywhere are rushing to get on the Web, and the PC makes that easy. But what really sets the PC apart is the incredible **empowerment（许可、授权）** and flexibility it offers in a single, economical package. Sitting at your PC, you can do your taxes, surf the Web, write letters, e-mail friends, play games, plan a business, buy a car, do your homework … in fact, do whatever you want. 

​	The PC has given the average American the kind of computing power that 10 years ago was found only in large corporations. Yet people now take this for granted—and want more. They want to do many of the things they can do on their PC regardless of where they are or what device they are using—whether it’s a palm-size computer, a Web-enabled cell phone, an Auto PC or a smart television like WebTV. A combination of sophisticated software, powerful microprocessors, wireless technology and high-bandwidth connectivity is starting to make that a reality. 

​	For most people at home and at work, the PC will remain the primary computing tool; you’ll still want a big screen and a keyboard to balance your investment **portfolio（投资组合）**, write a letter to Aunt Agnes, view complex Web pages, and you’ll need plenty of local processing power for graphics, games and so on. But the PC will also work in tandem with other cool devices. You’ll be able to share your data—files, schedule, calendar, e-mail, address book, etc.—across different machines; you won’t have to think about it; it will be automatic. If you want to find the best price for a new car—and check out your budget to see if you can afford it—you’ll be able to do that at the **dealership（授权经销商）**, on the device you have with you. Wherever you are, whatever you want to do, you’ll have all the information you need. 

​	At the same time—and many who doubt the PC’s staying power miss this point—the PC itself will be getting more powerful, more reliable and simpler to use. Even though the underlying hardware, networks and software will become more complex, that complexity will be hidden from users. There will be a simpler user interface that adapts to your needs, with voice recognition and natural-language processing. There will be “**instant-on**,” so you won’t have to wait for your PC to come to life. When the PC is at the center of a home network (probably connected to a broader network that will constantly monitor performance, update software and download device drivers and the like), it will be incredibly easy to administer, automatic in operation and maintenance-free. And the PC will **morph（形态）** into many new forms, such as book-size “tablet PCs.” But they’ll still be PCs underneath, with all the benefits of the universal PC model. 

​	That model will play a vital role in this new world of anytime, anywhere computing. The PC’s high-volume, low-cost approach will be adopted by many of the new smart devices, because it offers amazing value to consumers. The cost of innovation is spread widely, so everyone benefits from billions of dollars of R & D2 . And the PC’s broadly accepted technical standards—and open Internet standards—mean that when you buy a new device, you’ll know it will function with your existing equipment. In this new “PC-plus” era connectivity will be king, and the PC model’s common standards will be more important than ever. PCs gave the world a whole new way to work, play and communicate. The PC-plus era will be just as revolutionary. It will take the PC’s power and make it available almost anywhere, on devices that haven’t yet been dreamed up. **Given my job, it’s hardly surprising that I’d say this. But I’m betting Microsoft’s future on it.** 



## 08-10:

Remarks by Bill Gates:

​	Everyone, Anytime, Anywhere The next step for technology is universal access.

Amazingly, it’s been more than 20 years since the concept of “convergence” entered the high tech lexicon. For most of that time, convergence has meant two things: the coming together of the computer, consumer electronics, and telecommunications industries and the merging of gadgets such as the PC, TV, and telephone. But as the 21st century approaches, sophisticated digital technologies and the promise of exploding bandwidth are combining to create a third kind of convergence—one that will change our lives more dramatically than anything we’ve seen so far. It will deliver the power of the information age into the hands of everyone, anytime, anywhere. We live in an age where voice, data, and video are just bits, ones and zeros to be pushed down the broadest pipe or around the most accommodating slice of spectrum. 1 Bits are agnostic. They don’t care how they get where they’re going—only that they arrive in the right order and at the right moment.1 The ubiquity of bits is already empowering the kind of hybridization that most people have envisioned for consumer electronics these past two decades—multifunctional devices such as modern PCs, WebTV, cable modems, and smart phones. But this is only the start. Combine digital technology with advanced software, smaller and more powerful microprocessors, and exponential growth in fiber and wireless bandwidth, and you get something far more useful—seamless, universal connectivity. This turns convergence on its head.2 It means that although computer, telecommunications, and consumer electronics technologies will come together, the next generation of smart devices mostly won’t. Universal connectivity will bring together all the information and services you need and make them available to you regardless of where you are, what you are doing, or the kind of device you are using. Call it “virtual” convergence—everything you want is in one place, but that place is wherever you want it to be, not just at home or in the office. The result is that there’ll be a proliferation of smart, connected devices, from palm-sized and tablet PCs to Web-enabled phones and AutoPCs. Your files, schedule, address book, and everything else you need will automatically be replicated onto each of these devices, because everything that can think will link. Virtual convergence will take the power on your desktop and make it available wherever you want it. But to help avoid information overload, it will do this intelligently. If you’re watching a game in the ballpark on a Saturday afternoon, the network will know that player profiles or an online form to order a hot dog are what you need on your palm-sized computer—not your tax return or tomorrow’s travel itinerary. A lot still needs to be done to make this a reality. First, in the same way that people must speak the same language if they are to understand each other and collaborate, smart devices also need to speak a common language to communicate effectively. The best way to achieve this is by using existing open Internet standards. The industry is starting down that route, but there’s still a long way to go. Second, a massive amount of investment is still required if high-speed, broadband communications are to be widely available throughout the United States. To make all this happen, we’ll see more deals, alliances, and joint ventures involving computing, consumer electronics, telecommunications, Internet, and cable companies. And chances are that as everyone faces the challenge of developing a viable business model, some of those ventures will fail in the marketplace. But two things are certain: Ubiquitous wireless and high-bandwidth data networks are going to get built, and the various smart devices required to provide access to these networks will soon be on the market. Together, they will make the potential of virtual convergence a reality. 



08-11:

Louis V. Gerstner Jr.1 : IT and the Reformation of Chinese State-Owned Enterprises 

China is very special to me. I’ve had the privilege of visiting your country many, many times over the past 20 years. And I believe you know how proud we are of our business here, and the IBM China team led by my colleague, Henry Chow. We employ about 2,000 people in IBM China. We’ve established 7 joint ventures with an additional 3,000 employees in areas including application software, software development, and manufacturing. We enjoy relationships with hundreds of local Chinese business partners, and we continue to invest very heavily in China. Our storage business is among IBM’s most strategic and fastest-growing, and China is home to developments and manufacturing facilities that feed our assembly plants all over the world. …… Last fall, I was personally honored to host President Jiang during his trip to the United States. And at his request, we demonstrated some of IBM’s latest technologies, including one we are extremely proud of: a speech recognition program for Mandarin—a fantastic product developed right here in our advanced research laboratory in Beijing. Yesterday, I had the pleasure of meeting with President Jiang once again. We shared a lot of positive ideas of how we can strengthen IBM’s relationship with China and serve China’s interest in the reformation of Chinese state-owned enterprises. IBM has enjoyed a relationship with China that has endured for more than half a century. But I do not believe there has ever been a more exciting time to be doing business here, as vast new opportunity is created by your sweeping modernization and ambitious, government-led reform programs for thousands of state-owned enterprises. This transformation, I believe, will underscore the critical importance of information technology as a driver of competitive success and real economic growth for China. …… Today, in almost every industry in almost every part of the world there are many examples of enterprises applying this technology to seize competitive advantage and to create enormous challenges for their competitors. I think we’re seeing information technology reach the point that all transformational technologies reach when they are no longer controlled by just a small group of skilled professionals, and they cross over to mass acceptance and ubiquity. Networking technology is still in its infancy, yet it’s reached already the point where we can call it a new mass medium. Consider that in the U.S.: Radio took about 30 years to attract 50 million users. Television took 13 years. Cable television took 10 years. The Internet did it in half that. Less than 5 years after the birth of the World Wide Web, some 90 million people are online around the world, and that number will be hundreds of millions before too long. Of course, right now, the U.S. has embraced the Net more fully than other nations, both in terms of individual users, and business use. But, clearly, this is a global medium. Very soon there will be equal numbers of people accessing the Web in English and other languages. Five countries other than the U.S. have around ten percent of their populations using the Web. Here in China, the number of Internet users has nearly doubled since just last October, to more than 1 million users. And I’ve seen statistics that say your Internet population will exceed 7 million people by the year 2001. Some people are talking about a phenomenon they call “Internet Leapfrog”, a high-stakes game in which countries that make the most astute use of networked technologies quickly bypass other regions in production, productivity, and profitable growth. Today, this contest of Internet Leapfrogging is played on a wide-open field. We have about 90 million connected users and some equate that with universal connectivity. But consider that if just 4 percent of the populations of your nation and India got connected tomorrow, the worldwide number of Internet users would double. These numbers are interesting, but the real important question is: “What are all these individuals, and the world’s leading institutions, doing on the Net?” Not too long ago, the prevailing view was that the Net was about looking up information, or that it was a medium for interpersonal communication, a replacement for the telephone or post office. Today, it’s evident that the Net represents a transformation far more profound than online “chat” groups or giving people access to sports scores and weather reports. It has emerged as a powerful means for parties of every type to conduct interactions of every type. Certainly, it’s changing the way things are bought and sold. Electronic commerce is booming. Even the most conservative estimates say that it will be at least a $200 billion marketplace by the turn of the century (which is only 500 days away)—most of that volume in business to business transactions. And while 86 percent of Internet commerce was generated inside the U.S. last year, the rest of the world is getting into the game in a serious way. Internet commerce generated outside the U.S. will represent more than 35 percent of the world total by the year 2002. But what’s going on isn’t just limited to commerce, to buying and selling. At IBM, we use a slightly more descriptive term. We talk about e-business to describe all of the vital transactions that will be conducted on the Net. E-business includes transactions among employees inside an enterprise; among trading partners in a supply chain; and of course, the networked transactions that transform the way educators teach students, physicians treat patients, and the way governments deliver services to citizens. All of these interactions will become digital. They won’t necessarily replace the kind of physical transactions we know today, but they will augment them. …… China is embarking on an extraordinary new stage of its economic and industrial development. The restructuring of the state-owned enterprises is as big a transformation as any country has ever seen, let alone implemented. The process of transformation of the state-owned enterprises is well underway, as we discussed with Minister Sheng and President Jiang yesterday. Today it is working at the first stage of enterprise restructuring, which is to align industries, align assets, merge companies, and to create an industry infrastructure that is organizationally capable of becoming a globally successful enterprise or globally successful industry. However, there’s another phase to economic reform of state-owned enterprises that goes beyond structure, that goes beyond merging, that goes beyond aligning. It’s about the processes by which the enterprises are managed. The systems of cost control, of accounting, of inventory management, of supply chain management, of cash management, of customer relationships, and of benchmarking—these are all systems that aren’t created through structural change. They’re created through process and cultural change. And underpinning all of those systems—what drives the creation of those systems—is information technology.1 Information technology is the science—the underlying science—of institutional restructuring. It is the science you use to restructure institutions. It is the basis and the tools by which you build systems that allow institutions to be efficient and globally competitive. China’s information technology industry needs to evolve today along with the state-owned enterprises to support the transformation of China’s enterprises. 

Today China’s information technology industry is principally a hardware-based industry. But it is absolutely critical that China build a software and services industry along with its hardware industry if the transformation of the state-owned enterprises is going to take place. Because what we need in China are applications. We already have the computers, but what China needs now are the applications that run on the computers that will allow the state-owned enterprises to achieve this transformation. I’m not talking about simple, unsophisticated software like spreadsheets, word processing, or games. I’m talking about large, complex software that allows these companies to do all the things I talked about before: transaction processing, data management, billing, cash management, managing platforms, e-business opportunities. China needs to build the industry that will adapt applications for and build new applications out of the intellectual capital of the Chinese people. And then a services industry has to emerge that will help China’s institutions apply these technologies to their state-owned enterprises. And finally there is, in my opinion, a very big opportunity for China to lead in the transformation of small and medium sized companies, including smaller state-owned enterprises—because what will happen in the future is that software applications that allow companies to become efficient and globally competitive will be embedded in a network. Small and medium sized companies will not have to build those applications. They will not have to pay for those applications. If China’s telecom industry develops in the way we expect it will, and if focus is given to these Chinese applications, small and medium sized businesses will be able to, in effect, rent the applications, dial up on their telephone, and have a billing application, an accounting application, or an e-business application, to use without having to build it, pay up front1 , or maintain it. But again, this requires a focus in China on the next stage of development of the information technology industry, which is to move beyond just making PCs and hardware to making intellectual capital, to making the real heart of an information technology system, which is the application, not the hardware. 

So it’s interesting to see how China’s extraordinarily important priority of restructuring the state-owned enterprises aligns very clearly and carefully with the next stage of development of the information technology industry in China. It aligns very clearly with the next phase of the information technology, which is e-business. And through the evolution of Chinese-based applications, building on the e-business concept, there’s a lot of opportunity and, I think, a lot of optimism about the success of the state-owned enterprise reformation program. Thank you very much. 



08-12:

Section C Andrew S. Grove1 : Only the Paranoid Survive 

I’m often credited with the motto, “Only the paranoid survive.” I have no idea when I first said this, but the fact remains that, when it comes to business, I believe in the value of paranoia. Business success contains the seeds of its own destruction. The more successful you are, the more people want a chunk of your business and then another chunk and then another until there is nothing left. I believe that the prime responsibility of a manager is to guard constantly against other people’s attacks and to inculcate this guardian attitude in the people under his or her management. The things I tend to be paranoid about vary. I worry about products getting screwed up, and I worry about products getting introduced prematurely. I worry about factories not performing well, and I worry about having too many factories. I worry about hiring the right people, and I worry about morale slacking off2 . And, of course, I worry about competitors. I worry about other people figuring out how to do what we do better or cheaper, and displacing us with our customers. But these worries pale in comparison to how I feel about what I call strategic inflection points. I’ll describe what a strategic inflection point is a bit later in this book. For now, let me just say that a strategic inflection point is a time in the life of a business when its fundamentals are about to change. That change can mean an opportunity to rise to new heights. But it may just as likely signal the beginning of the end. Strategic inflection points can be caused by technological change but they are more than technological change. They can be caused by competitors but they are more than just competition. They are full-scale changes in the way business is conducted, so that simply adopting new technology or fighting the competition as you used to may be insufficient. They build up force so insidiously that you may have a hard time even putting a finger on1 what has changed, yet you know that something has. Let’s not mince words2 : A strategic inflection point can be deadly when unattended to. Companies that begin a decline as a result of its changes rarely recover their previous greatness. But strategic inflection points do not always lead to disaster. When the way business is being conducted changes, it creates opportunities for players who are adept at operating in the new way. This can apply to newcomers or to incumbents, for whom a strategic inflection point may mean an opportunity for a new period of growth. You can be the subject of a strategic inflection point but you can also be the cause of one. Intel, where I work, has been both. In the mid-eighties, the Japanese memory producers brought upon us an inflection point so overwhelming that it forced us out of memory chips and into the relatively new field of microprocessors. The microprocessor business that we have dedicated ourselves to has since gone on to cause the mother of all inflection points for other companies, bringing very difficult times to the classical mainframe computer industry. Having both been affected by strategic inflection points and having caused them, I can safely say that the former is tougher. I’ve grown up in a technological industry. Most of my experiences are rooted there. I think in terms of technological concepts and metaphors, and a lot of my examples in this book come from what I know. But strategic inflection points, while often brought about by the workings of technology, are not restricted to technological industries. The fact that an automated teller machine could be built has changed banking. If interconnected inexpensive computers can be used in medical diagnosis and consulting, it may change medical care. The possibility that all entertainment content can be created, stored, transmitted and displayed in digital form may change the entire media industry. In short, strategic inflection points are about fundamental change in any business, technological or not. We live in an age in which the pace of technological change is pulsating ever faster, causing waves that spread outward toward all industries. This increased rate of change will have an impact on you, no matter what you do for a living. It will bring new competition from new ways of doing things, from corners that you don’t expect. It doesn’t matter where you live. Long distances used to be a moat that both insulated and isolated people from workers on the other side of the world. But every day, technology narrows that moat inch by inch. Every person in the world is on the verge of1 becoming both a coworker and a competitor to every one of us, much the same2 as our colleagues down the hall of the same office building are. Technological change is going to reach out and sooner or later change something fundamental in your business world. Are such developments a constructive or a destructive force? In my view, they are both. And they are inevitable. In technology, whatever can be done will be done. We can’t stop these changes. We can’t hide from them. Instead, we must focus on getting ready for them. The lessons of dealing with strategic inflection points are similar whether you’re dealing with a company or your own career. If you run a business, you must recognize that no amount of formal planning can anticipate such changes. Does that mean you shouldn’t plan? Not at all. You need to plan the way a fire department plans: It cannot anticipate where the next fire will be, so it has to shape an energetic and efficient team that is capable of responding to the unanticipated as well as to any ordinary event. Understanding the nature of strategic inflection points and what to do about them will help you safeguard your company’s well-being. It is your responsibility to guide your company out of harm’s way and to place it in a position where it can prosper in the new order. Nobody else can do this but you. If you are an employee, sooner or later you will be affected by a strategic inflection point. Who knows what your job will look like after cataclysmic change sweeps through your industry and engulfs the company you work for? Who knows if your job will even exist and, frankly, who will care besides you? Until very recently, if you went to work at an established company, you could assume that your job would last the rest of your working life. But when companies no longer have lifelong careers themselves, how can they provide one for their employees? As these companies struggle to adapt, the methods of doing business that worked very well for them for decades are becoming history. Companies that have had generations of employees growing up under a no-layoff policy are now dumping 10,000 people onto the street at a crack1 . The sad news is, nobody owes you a career. Your career is literally your business. You own it as a sole proprietor. You have one employee: yourself. You are in competition with millions of similar businesses: millions of other employees all over the world. You need to accept ownership of your career, your skills and the timing of your moves. It is your responsibility to protect this personal business of yours from harm and to position it to benefit from the changes in the environment. Nobody else can do that for you. Having been a manager at Intel for many years, I’ve made myself a student of strategic inflection points. Thinking about them has helped our business survive in an increasingly competitive environment. I’m an engineer and a manager, but I have always had an urge to teach, to share with others what I’ve figured out for myself. It is that same urge that makes me want to share the lessons I’ve learned. This book is not a memoir. I am involved in managing a business and deal daily with customers and partners, and speculate constantly about the intentions of competitors. In writing this book, I sometimes draw on observations I have made through such interactions. But these encounters didn’t take place with the notion that they would make it into any public arena. They were business discussions that served a purpose for both Intel and others’ businesses, and I have to respect that. So please forgive me if some of these stories are camouflaged in generic descriptions and anonymity. It can’t be helped. What this book is about is the impact of changing rules. It’s about finding your way through uncharted territories. Through examples and reflections on my and others’ experiences, I hope to raise your awareness of what it’s like to go through cataclysmic changes and to provide a framework in which to deal with them. 